"... the feeling I had was something very special beyond the description of words, which transport your mind to the Tibetan plateau and you feel in communion with the energy of our homeland,  Tibet.  It provides you with a mixture of joyfulness and melancholy. However, a sensation of appeasement and reconciliation with one’s own roots. 

This was a unique moment of intimacy and discovery for me. 
​
You have our profound gratitude for your constant efforts and for your unwavering dedication (to Tibetan music and opera). "
By Thupten Gyatso, Europe-Chitue or The European Representative of Tibetan parliament in exile

"It was a wonderful concert! I found myself smiling throughout the performance.."
By Catherine Shrady, Professor Emeritus, St. Lawrence University 

"...The show was a treat for those unfamiliar with Tibetan culture. Your message of peace and hope resonated with all.”
By Tsewang Lama

"..It was wonderful to see Techung and ensemble playing some of the all time favorite Nangma Toeshey songs, many of which we have grown up listening to.."
By Tencho Gyatso, International campaign for Tibet

" ..We are proud that you are keeping alive our classical music from Lhasa, Nangma and Toeshey" Katrin Che!
By Tenzin Bharshee, Capital-Area Tibetan Association

"..Then there was Tibetan freedom folk singer Techung, whom Glass also supported on piano.."
By Ronald Hart, BillBoard 

"Techung is an accomplished singer/musician and his voice and music has been featured on the soundtrack of the IMAX film, “Everest.” He has also performed for His Holiness the Dalai Lama..."
By BY ALVIN REINER Press-Republican

"Yarlung-Tibetan Songs of Love and Freedom" is an outstanding example of new Tibetan music that will reach a global audience".
Tenzin N. Tethong, former representative of His Holiness the Dalai Lama

"...In fact, even though Techung cannot return to Tibet to play his dramnyen and sing, but the wings of his songs have carried his music back to his homeland, which enjoys a high reputation among Tibetan young people...
“Bone of the heart”（སྙིང་རུས།）is a Tibetan metaphor and we all know what it stands for. For Tibetans living inside and outside Tibet, even though manners and morals change, the power indulges in wanton massacre and persecution, and dignity is treated with contempt, but the “bone of the heart” can never be broken. The music of the Tibetan singer, Techung, reveals this scene to the grim and callous world..."
By By Woeser, Tibetan writer, activist, Beijing (extract from the High Peaks Pure Earth website)

